>> Thanks everyone for coming.
Antoine and I are really very excited
to present some of this stuff to you.
Hopefully you'll see things that you didn't know were
in Safari and you can start using them both on the web
and in your apps if you're embedding WebKit in your apps.
This session, basically, is building
on the features that have been added
to Safari since it, since it became open source.
We're focusing on the graphics related features.
While the topic of this session is vector graphics,
we're actually starting with a little bit of CSS.
And the reason for this is if you look
at the majority of web pages today,
the really rich graphical web pages are
using CSS to provide the look and feel.
Now, Safari 3 is that adds some new CSS features
based on standards that were defined a few years ago
that allow people to effectively make their pages or their
layout easier because they're using these new features.
After that I'll give an introduction to Canvas, which is
a way to use JavaScript to draw graphics in the browser.
And then Antoine will finish it up by giving an
introduction to SVG and show some nice demos.
So, I just want to start with the, something that I
don't think is being, I haven't seen highlighted too much
in this conference, is this fantastic
new redesign for Apple.com.
And if you're a web developer or even if you're not
you should really take a look at the site and, in fact,
not just look at the site as it is in the browser, view
the source and have a look at the way that they've implemented it.
While, as this session is actually building on all
the hard work that has been done by the WebKit team
and the WebKit community, this site is just some
amazing work done by the, by the design team.
Now, show this next one.
I assume that everyone knows like when Steve gets up and
gives a key note that afterwards the press and the media
and the whole world and the blogging community
got to examine nearly every word he goes over
and really look at what happened in detail.
Well, the sort of web nerd design
community have the same expectations
for a company like Apple when they redesign their site.
If Apple did such a sort of major redesign
as this and still used technologies
from 2001 that'd probably get lots of negative press.
But this is just, this is just fantastic.
Now, you can see sort of how the look and feel
is sort of similar to the, the previous design.
But what's interesting is they've
used much more semantic mark-up
to get the effects, and this is one of the benefits of CSS.
So the toolbar across the top is, in fact, a
list, an HML list and CSS renders it as a toolbar
and assigns the background, images of the nice gradient
fade and works out which images, which tab has been selected
as the main tab and colors that a
different, a different background.
The other things you notice is the current trend today
of, what I sort of think, is like child safe kitchens
where every corner's been rounded off
so no one's going to hurt themselves.
I actually looked through the site
and I only found two sharp edges,
and they're actually on this slide if you look closely.
But I don't know whether that was just something that
didn't happen or it was intentionally, but I can't,
I can't complain about the design in anyway.
Not only is it just doing layout it's
actually got some great interactive features.
And it's really giving the look
and feel of Apple to the people
that are visiting the website, and this is really important.
Here we've got very rich media,
lots of content, lots of graphics.
We've got some interactivity where you can slide
across and the see the products that Apple make.
Also with this, is the second half of that page, they've
got QuickTime embedded that has some interactivity to it.
This section on the left here, if you mouse
over it you get these animated effects.
Now, people have probably seen animation on the web for
a long while but they, what's new about these websites
that are coming out now is the animation
is done as a core part of the browser,
using the features that the browser implemented.
In this case it's using JavaScript.
And the other important thing is that because
it's just using JavaScript the content,
the semantically rich content is being sent to the
browser so if you don't have JavaScript or you're running
on another device or for example, you're not
even running on something that has a screen,
you're just having it read to you,
all the content's available.
A richer experience gets, oh sorry, if you're on a
more powerful browser you get a richer experience.
This is effectively making the web or video and all
these effects a core piece of the web browser technology.
Now, unfortunately as they made this beautiful
site they, as Apple.com has to be visible
to everyone including browsers, including users on a
popular operating system that use a very popular browser,
they can't necessarily use all the features
of CSS that have been implemented in WebKit.
So the new features I'm going to talk about
now could have been used by they weren't used.
And this is actually an important thing to know about
web standards, CSS has passed its tenth birthday.
But what happens with web technologies
is you, hopefully you'd standardize them
in some way rather than to start to implement them.
They get some level of interoperability
and once it reaches a level
of market penetration then people can
start using it as, as, in their content.
So here's an example of how they could have, how it could
have been a little bit easier in the Apple redesign.
So, one of the most common features that people use
is these rounded borders and often you see a sort
of nice gradient fade on the, on the rectangular area.
Now, the problem with that is sometimes you have
to, that means you have to wrap your mark-up in,
in sort of empty elements to provide sort of
extra boxes that you can attach the graphics to.
Well, the background image tag has been, is being
extended here to be able to take more than one, one image.
So instead of just saying background image and give
it one pink file, I've given five in this case.
Now, another great thing to, to mention
about this, this approach is that it's
it's actually great for backwards compatibility.
We're not breaking any existing content here.
If an old browser hits this, this, it's not going to,
your page isn't going to be unrenderable or whatever.
It's actually using the features in CSS to
add functionality to new versions of CSS.
Underneath here I, I set a position, background position
for every one of the images and, it's a pretty ugly graphic,
but it's that, what'll happen is that paragraph
would resize to whatever text is, is placed in it
and the graphics would align themselves
with the way I, I, the way I position them.
Another similar property is the ability to set one border
image and have it resize to fit the entire content.
This is, again, implemented in Safari 3 and
been in WebKit now, at least for a while now.
So, here again, very similar to the way it's actually
done at the moment, you set a border image property,
which takes a parameter, the URL to a, to a PNG file.
And here's the extra bit, was where I set
some four parameters after the image the image
to specify how it's sliced up, and
I'll show you that in the next slide.
In this case I did add another, some anti-element
here a div around the paragraph.
What that means is that no matter what content I
put, I had placed into that div the border is going
to resize to whatever size the content has taken.
So let's have a look at how it's done.
The actual border image can be any size you want.
So, I mean, here the actual image that's
used to render that, that border is a square.
But if I go back one you see it's been
resized to, to get the shape of the content.
Now, with the four parameters here
are specifying basically two,
four slices that will generate nine
individual pieces of the image.
And you've got the, the four corners will go to the four
corners of the rectangular area in CSS and, you know,
the middle pieces, or sorry, middle edges and the middle
of the element itself get resized to fill the space.
Now, that's all I was going to talk about in CSS.
Now I'm going to go on to doing Canvas.
Just before I leave CSS, you know, I didn't want to
talk about the thousands of features that use CSS.
I'm, instead, going to do the web way and say go to
Apple.com and view source and you can get all the,
all the tricky ways that I've implemented things so far.
So, now let's talk about Canvas.
This is something that is quite cool.
Of course, again, people have seen graphics in the browser
and animations in the browser but in this case this,
this functionality is exposed directly
to the, to the engine itself.
You don't have to call any external plugins or whatever.
So, Canvas is an HTML element.
And the HTML element defines the rectangular region of
the page and then also a JavaScript API that allows you
to do whatever you want with that rectangular image.
It's been available since Safari 2.0,
which means you can already use today on Tiger.
It's, there has been some slight
updates to the interface since then.
It's, you know, been documented in a standards
process and has made some slight tweaks.
So you should, if you're using Canvas you should check
your Dashboard widget or whatever it is on Safari 3.
Another interesting thing about it is, what I saw is draw
and forget, is that Canvas just updates pixels in the page.
If I draw something on it I don't actually
have any memory of the fact that I've drawn it.
What's happened is that the actual page has been
updated to whatever I've actually sent to the screen.
This is kind of different to the way typical people, typical
web programming happens, where you have the object model
of the document there and you use the
JavaScript to examine the document
and provide some kind of effect
based on what the content is.
In this case it's purely for just rendering
images, or rendering pixels on the screen.
The advantage of this is it has
a very low memory footprint.
If you're going to display thousands and
thousands of objects you don't want to have
to have a DOM element for every one of those.
You just draw, draw to the screen using, you know,
JavaScript or generate the graphics using a program.
This means it's quite high performance and,
furthermore, it's actually a very simple API.
Now, I'm a pretty simple person so I like simple API's.
Web, again, it's the way the web
works, is you don't necessarily have
to deliver something, everything to the user straight away.
You give something easy and you can build
on that as, as interoperability arrives.
Actually just before that, of course, you may know
Canvas from such Dashboard widgets as the clock,
where it's use to rotate the hands and the fantastic flight
path widget where it, it animates the path of the plane,
which, of course, would be sort of impractical to a
store on, on the data store on the server, you know,
the thousands of images that you're
required to show every path.
So where is it available?
Well, it was, again, invented by Safari and shipped
with Dashboard and, sorry, Safari 2.0 and Dashboard.
And since then Firefox and Opera
have implemented it interoperably.
It's also available in IE because people have used a
JavaScript library that effectively mirrors the API
and then calls some features that are only
implemented on Windows IE to draw the same graphics.
So it's, it is something you can use
every where with a little bit of work.
From now on its development has been sent to the
standards bodies, first to the WHATWG,
which included in HTML file specification and that
specification now is part of the W3C HTML working group.
So, hopefully what we'll see is, again,
complete interoperability as well
as some new features coming to later versions of HTML.
For the core graphics programs out there
the API will be very, very familiar.
It's got paths, strokes, fills, gradients.
I'll just mention a few things that maybe web
developers are more or interested in other than that is,
you know, can do the shawdows automatically.
Drop shawdows, they're so 2006
now but, maybe they're still used.
Patents. For the core graphics
programmers there's one major difference,
is where in core graphics you get a drawing context
and you pass it into the functions you call.
In this case you get the context and call
methods on the context and set attributes.
It's the same idea but just a slightly
different of approach.
So, how do I include it in a web page?
Here's a typical web page.
I just have a Canvas element.
I give it a width and height.
And that basically reserves this part of the screen,
the blue section in the page, that reserves that part
of the screen and allows me to
draw into it using JavaScript.
How do you actually draw?
Well, like regular DOM programming you use
get element by ID to, in this case I've used,
I've given the Canvas object, sorry,
the Canvas element an ID Canvas.
That gives me a reference to the DOM
object that implements the Canvas.
And then I ask the Canvas for the drawing context.
The drawing context is a thing that's actually
associated with each individual Canvas on the page
and allows you to render graphics into the Canvas.
Now, it's probably worth noting
that you can see a passive parameter
into the context, to get context call, which is 2D.
The reason for this is it's designed to be extensible.
You're just given basically a blank
region of screen or blank canvas.
There's no reason why you couldn't have
3D graphics in there or any other type
of graphics you could possibly
imagine or even simpler or harder.
The idea is that whatever is returned from the
get context call is going to give you something
that renders into that region of the screen.
Now, in this case, finally, are calling 2D
because that's the only one that's implemented.
But you could, hopefully, imagine that maybe later
down the track you'll be able to call, ask for a 3D,
3D context and, again, render 3D graphics.
=
Once you've got a context you set attributes on that object.
And those attributes control the, the
method of drawing, whether it's, you know,
stroked with a particular color or
it's width or height or opacity.
And then you call methods on the context objects
actually render shapes onto the, onto the page.
A quick mention here about what it means to have vectors.
Because the vectors are described
by a mathematical function here,
it gives you an easy way to have resolution independence.
The Canvas, while it's given, it's given its
width and height in terms of the page dimensions,
that doesn't necessarily mean you can't use a coordinate
system and basically map the model of the graphics
that you're using into the canvas
system by setting transforms.
So the Quartz 2D people should- be aware
here that Canvas uses a Y down coordinate system
which is probably the opposite to
the way most people learn geometry.
The reason for this is that, the reason it's different
from the typical paid Y up coordinate system is that,
unfortunately, that's the way that HTML sort of works.
As you add elements to the page the content moves down the
page and this sort of effectively makes it easier for people
that are familiar with CSS to use this
similar approach to move into using Canvas.
And, of course, once I have a coordinate
system I can do whatever I want with it.
I can translate it.
And it's not just moving it around,
again, I could also cay rotate the canvas.
I'm not rotating the canvas, it'll rotate the
graphics that I've got to draw on the canvas.
In this case squish them in an X direction
and stretch them in height, a Y direction.
So let's just do a very simple flow through of what happens.
So imagine this is the Canvas.
You're actually given a blank canvas to start off with so,
I mean, I'm just using the grid to show what's going on.
Now, I call this very simple function, fillRect, which is
saying use an X position and a Y position of 100 and a width
and height of 200 and 300 and its just
got to draw a rectangle on the screen.
We'll go into this in a little bit more
detail later, actually what's happening here.
And you can see, again, the Y coordinate
system goes down the, down the, down the page.
So, once, again, once you, once you've drawn on the Canvas
you've got no knowledge, I mean you can't, you can't look,
examine it to see what's actually on there as such yet.
So, if you've got to draw multiple
things on there they're just going
to start piling on top of each other and obscuring it.
So, usually the first thing you do is say I want to clear
the Canvas, which is basically just got to wipe the graphics
out and give you a fully transparent bitmap.
So, if I'd call the clearRect function, in this case
I'm calling it on the entire Canvas, to remove everything
and I'm starting back with a, with
a completely empty screen.
Now the way that fillrect actually was
implemented or, I don't know if implemented
to say the way you should understand that it's
behaving in the context of paths, again, similar to,
same to way that even Quartz 2D has
paths and also the Cocoa layer has paths.
You start by saying a begin path and
then you give it a set of functions.
You have this knowledge of what the current point is.
So I begin a path and the first thing I'm going
to do is say move the current point to 100, 100.
Then I say to it, move the current point to, draw a line
to this particular point and I'm going to go down a bit,
then I'm going to go along a bit and finally I'm going to say, now
from wherever you are go back to the where we started from,
and that's going to give you a complete
filled path, sorry, a complete object.
And then the next thing I do is actually call a drawing
operation on that, which is fill and it uses the path
and renders, in this case, whatever the
current color is into the, into the path.
Now, of course, I don't have to have just rectangles.
I can here dazzle you with my artistic ability and show
you that any curve or shape that can be represented
by beziers or arcs or whatever
can be added to the path.
And, again, you just close the path and fill it
and it's going to use whatever the current path is.
So, how do you set the, the actual attributes of drawing?
In this case I set the fill color
to, the fill style to be red.
You can pass in a color value in CSS.
And I select build a rectangle.
Now, once that's done I have to update the fill
style here to green and I draw the rectangle in,
rectangle in a slightly different position.
You can see that it's obscured the red one.
In this case I'm setting the color to blue and
I give the, what I say here is the global alpha,
which means that every drawing operation that
happens now has got to be 50 percent transparent
So you can see how this blue rectangle
has parts of the green rectangle showing
through it because it's semi-transparent.
Stroking, again, very simple.
You set the stroke style.
I've set the color to be red.
I give it a line width.
And what it's done is traced the path with a line
that's five units wide and you've got a stroke.
Now, you can control the order in which this happens.
If you wanted to draw a stroked
rectangle, for example, you can decide,
in this case, to set the color to blue and fill it.
Then you'd set the color to be
green and stroke the same rectangle.
Now, this is sort of the typical way things work.
You expect the stroke, the stroke actually
is aligned on the middle of the path.
So you've got half of the stroke is on one
side and half the stroke is on the other side.
So the order matters here.
You'd get a different effect if you
did the fill the other way around.
Draw images, and they're very, very simple here.
I just set an X and Y point.
Well, I should actually say the way you actually
reference an image is kind of interesting.
In this case my, the, the HTML document itself I've put in
an IMG, an image tag and I've referenced a particular URL.
And then in my JavaScript I use get element
by ID to get a reference to that image object
and then I can draw it in the, in the Canvas.
You can also use JavaScript to create a new image object
and you pass in a URL and it'll fetch the image for you.
Then I tell it to draw on the screen at an XY location
and it's going to use the default resolution
of the image to draw the screen.
Now, it's also interesting to note that
the image here appears the right way up.
So you, There's some things like text where you
don't count your text but you have to realize
that the coordinate system doesn't always
necessarily work the way you want it to work.
I can also pass a width and a height to draw the image in.
In this case it's stretched the rectangle
in the horizontal direction and squished it.
Now, that's one way to squish and stretch an image.
But we could have also done it through transformation.
So in this case I'm going to draw
the same rectangle a few times.
The first thing I've done is translated the coordinate
system down by 100 units in the X direction and by 100 units
in the Y direction and then drawn in a rectangle.
And as far as the context knows, at that
point where I'm drawing the rectangle,
the whole coordinate system has shifted and I've just got to
use whatever I'm in at the time to draw the, the rectangle.
So now if I, again, translate the coordinate system
a bit further down I'm also going to apply scale,
which means that from now as, while I'm
using my same model coordinate system
when I render the screen all the X
values have been stretched by two.
So what was a square is now, a 100
by 100 square is now rectangle.
You can go further that, in fact, you
can then rotate the coordinate system.
And these transformations, every one that you
apply, it sort of adds the transformation to a stack
and you get a new coordinate system, and you
can reset the transforms to go back to usual.
And what I like to do is, or one good approach is
the, the context of the notion of a stack of states.
So, for example, you want to, you're in a function you
want to call another function that may do some transforms
but you want to, when the function exits you
want to get back to the state you were before.
What you do is, in fact, save the state on a stack, call
the function and everything you do to the fill style,
the stroking and all the drawing
attributes apply to the current context.
But once I call the restore state
I pop whatever the save, sorry,
the save context is off the stack
and I'm back to, back to where I was.
Actually, at this point I'll go do a demo.
I thought there was a slide that says demo here.
Just give you an example of what can be done.
So, in the graphics and media state of the union, Darin
Adler from the WebKit team and Safari team got up
and said Canvas is a way to do Canvas to
do the current trend of reflected images.
Let's just have a quick look at how this was done.
So here I've got a reference to the Canvas object, got a
reference to the context and I basically just draw an image.
Grass in the name of the image I've got from the document.
That's going to put the main image on the screen.
And now I do some transformations on that.
I'm going to flip the coordinate system
so that the reflection actually happens
as if, it looks like the physical world would.
And I also decide to set a bit of
alpha so it's not completely opaque.
And then I draw a gradient color over the top
of it so that it fades into the background.
So you can see, basically, here's a rectangle
and by the time it gets to there it's being,
it's being drawn as if it's the background color.
Now, what are the type of uses of Canvas?
This, the thing is because you're actually just rendering
to the Canvas you're not necessarily putting any content
in the, in the, in the document, means while Canvas
is incredibly useful you've got to be careful
in the way that you actually use it on a page.
So, I mean, I was just sort of thinking, well, what
happens if you had a surf shop and you wanted to, say,
represent the, you know, the current swell or
whatever to the customers that were viewing the page?
And what's, what's kind of interesting about this
is that it's an effect that people will see, but if,
if they didn't have support for Canvas or
they're running on a device that doesn't,
doesn't have the interactivity they're not
going to actually necessarily lose any content.
They're still getting the same, same data that, some
people are just getting possibly a better experience.
Although I, this demo isn't so fantastic
that I'd call it a better experience.
Now, Canvas can be interactive in the same
way that every regular HTML element is.
I can attach event listeners to it.
So, I mean, here I'll click on it.
You know, I'm a demolition company and I'm going old school
and I wanted a splash screen that, that enters into my site
and is some cool bricks that manage
to hover in the air for a long time.
But again, that just gives you an
example of the kind of, you know, it's a,
quite a fast and well performed API you can use.
In fact, people have implemented 3D
renderers,= sorry ray traces or fake sort
of 3D engines using Canvas, or even games.
I've seen lemmings replicated in Canvas.
And again, you can have these interactive
elements that do things.
You see opacity there.
I can click and, and again just getting the current position
on the screen where the mouse is over and drawing a,
drawing a circle and moving the mouse around.
I'll go back to the slide.
So, what you should keep in mind
when using something like Canvas is
that you have to make sure the content is accessible.
So, as I was mentioning, you shouldn't, you shouldn't rely
on the fact that people have got to see whatever you draw
on the Canvas to effectively get to
the content or interact with your site.
It's purely for giving effects or,
or adding something more to the page.
Also, this is something that the
web accessibility guidelines say is
that you should always use animations wisely.
And there's a number of reasons for that, is
some people, it can actually be very distracting
to them to have lots of movement on a page.
Another good reason is that if you've got an
animation running that's just for the sake
of making your page look cool you realize that,
you know, that's, that thing's hitting the CPU.
It might not be doing much but if it's animating fast
enough it's, you know, something the CPU has to wake
up for every time and if you're on a
resource limited device, for example,
that might mean that the battery can't, I mean, sorry.
they can't go into low power mode quickly.
So it's important for sort of mobile devices.
So that's all I had on, oh, there's the demo slide.
There we go.
That's all I had on Canvas.
So now I'm pleased to invite my BFF, which is Best
French Friend, Antoine Quint on the stage.
He's going to talk about SVG.
( Applause )
I'm sorry.
>> Thanks, thanks Dean.
So we're going to continue into transoff exploring the
various capabilities that are available to you in Safari 3.
And here we're really entering a world of
features that is completely new to Safari 3
that were never supported before
in Safari 2 or previous versions.
Of course, they've been available to
eager developers for a little while.
We're downloading nightly bills of
WebKit and etcetera, but these are,
this is the first time that Safari users will be
able to leverage these features when creating content
and hosting WebKit within their application.
A quick introduction to SVG.
SVG just like HTML and CSS and a host of web
standards that people have grown to love or despise,
but yet use on the web, is the W3C specification.
It is fully, It is a full web standard designed as such.
Currently the version of SVG that we will find implemented
in browsers is SVG 1.1, which really defines a set
of features for creating rich graphics
specifically designed for the world wide web.
Looking forward in a couple of years, as Dean highlighted,
it takes a while for technology as web standards
to really get properly supported in
web browsers in reach a mass market.
The next version of SVG is already under way.
It's called SVG 1.2 and it will go more deeply in
the world of rich media and animations and interactivity.
So the design goals of SVG when it was developed within
the W3C was to really provide flexible technology
for creating graphics that would be scalable, which is very
important when you're dealing with various sizes for screens
and resolutions and etcetera, but would also
be rich graphics, interactive and animated.
And, of course, we're only dealing
here with the two dimensional graphics.
There is nothing in SVG that will really help you
towards creating 3D worlds or anything like that.
Another great design goal is that were
SVG to succeed on the web it would have
to integrate properly with other web technologies.
And integrating with XML, HTML, CSS, the DOM, JavaScript,
PNG and all other web standards they're using every day
when designing web applications and web sites
have to be adequate, SVG has to be adequate
and integrate nicely with those features.
And Dean highlighted how important view source is when
you're a web developer and you want to learn new techniques
and etcetera, and certainly SVG is no different to that.
You're dealing the mark-up language and you can
open any SVG graphics on the web and view the source
and learn how it was created directly,
which I think, personally,
is something is a way I learned
a lot of my web design skills.
Currently, So Safari 3 supports SVG as a new feature.
Other browsers on the market support SVG as well.
Firefox and Opera do support SVG and a similar set of
features such as shapes and paths, support for text,
solid colors and gradients, stroke out
lines, opacity, fine transforms and etcetera,
but also scripting and scripted animations.
But we will get into that later when we get into
the more technical part of the presentation.
The way SVG is being used today on the web, it's
still a very up and coming technology and this is due
to browsers only starting to support
this technology recently.
But, I think there are already good interesting
signs on the web of people picking this technology up
and certainly the whole mindset currently around web
2.0, which is very pragmatic and a, you know,
whatever means I'll have to import to meet
my end is what, doesn't really matter.
I just need to do what I need to do and SVG
can be leveraged very well for the people
who just want to get things done directly.
So, of course, as an open standard it was
directly picked up in the open source world
and as a documented format it's really well
suited for dynamic generation on the server,
just like you would generate HTML dynamically.
So you will find a few graphics packaging
and matting systems built around PHP, Perl or Java.
But it also, SVG is also, of course,
a client's side technology.
And JavaScript libraries are getting
more popular every day.
There's a few mentioned in this very track at WWDC.
And a few of those libraries, such as dojo, TIBCO and
Google Web Tool Kit, also using SVG as an abstraction,
as a backend rendering for their java
script API's to do 2D graphics.
So this is also a way that you can actually start using
SVG even though you might not use the language yourself,
it is powered, everything that you'll do
with the API's will be powered by SVG.
And actually to look at some well known applications
that have already started to use SVG, just to note a few.
Google Maps and Windows Live Local
both support SVG to draw overlays,
your little routes over the map of mostly restored data.
And an interesting product that's just been
acquired by Google, it's called Tonicpoint,
is really sort of a Power Point kind of
authoring tool on the web, web 2.0 application.
But SVG goes beyond the web.
As a standard it can be applied to, it can be applied
to any sort of space that people are interested to,
in applying it and certainly as a graphics technology.
And as a document format it is important that there's
graphics authoring tools out there for you to use
and especially for designers who are not
really expected to code mark-up inscripting.
And a few tools I'd like to mention
here is, of course, Adobe Illustrator,
which is the industry standard tool
that has been SVG for years now.
Lineform, which is Mac OS end tool that won the Apple
Design Award last year, is another tool that supports SVG.
And in the open source world Inkscape is a
tool, a cross platform tool, that supports SVG.
It's a vector drawing packet.
There are many, many more tools from the
CAD world to the mapping world and etcetera.
These are mostly creative graphics tools
but lots of industries have already
started to run SVG for content creation.
But in terms of the web desktop, sorry.
In terms of desktop usage SVG is already used
also within the KDE and Gnome user interfaces
to render all the icons that will be rendered on screen.
Of course, SVG being a vector graphics format it is
really handy, it is very handy to define your icons using
that format because that means your icon will be able to
scale to whatever the user preference would be set to,
so if you want small or great big icons you will still
get the same level of details all rendered by SVG.
And moving into the web, web/
desktop application space, hybrid apps,
which is another topic that's covered at the WWDC this year.
A TV application that's launching, currently called
Joost, actually chose to use web technologies
and more specifically SVG to create
it's whole user interface.
And what's interesting Joost is that the whole user
interface is scalable so that when you use it on the TV,
which might be 69 and HD, fulli HD, etcetera or a computer
or any kind of resolution and screen aspect ratio,
the UI will scale and behave nicely
regardless of your display settings.
So this is a few of the things, a couple
of screen shots of the application.
And you can see everything here
is basically rendered using SVG.
So put back SVG into a context of web development.
First of all, I think what is really tremendously
great about SVG is that when you use SVG,
even though it might be a new technology,
you are not entering a foreign territory.
You are likely going to have a whole
lot of skills that would be directly,
that you will be able to directly apply to SVG.
So a few of the main points about SVG and to
meet those design goals I mentioned early.
SVG uses an XML grammar.
Everything is basically mark-up.
So when you draw things you basically
have elements in your document
that define how things need to be rendered on the screen.
And just like in HTML when you can use java
script and the DOM to manipulate your content,
the same concept can be applied directly to SVG.
CSS, of course, is also useable on SVG.
And finally, what I think is very important about SVG
is that it can be, as a web standard it can be and is,
of course, implemented natively by browsers.
So what it really means in practice is that now you can
author content is the same principle like HTML and CSS.
You know about mark-up, you know about structuring
your mark-up, you know about semantics around mark-up,
you know how to apply CSS and selectors and etcetera,
and these exact same things you will be able to apply
when creating SVG content and developing with SVG content.
What's really interesting, of course, because of the
mark-up and the fact that it's an open standard is
that it is integrated right into your web page.
You're not using a plugin architecture and just
rendering something on the side in a black box.
You're really, it is a first class citizen
within your web page or in your web application.
And when it comes to scripting, well, then all
the skill set you've, you've starting to build
up around AJAX is going to be applied directly also to SVG.
You'll be using the same programming language, which is JavaScript,
and the same programming API's, which is the DOM.
So all you really need to know, if I may say
so, is to know about SVG specifics and to learn
about how you can create graphics using SVG.
But before we delve into that I just wanted
to say a few things more related to the Mac.
SVG was not designed for the Mac or for
any platform in particular for that matter.
But I think it's worth understanding that
SVG really feels like a Mac type technology.
The way SVG is implemented, for
example, in the WebKit rendering engine
in Safari is using the Quartz 2D graphics comm-and.
So Dean showed in Canvas how commands would be mapped very
acute between Quartz 2D and Canvas,
while SVG, in a way, is a very higher level of
abstraction across those very rich drawing API's.
And, of course, since everything in SVG is based on vectors
you get by default resolution independence as a feature.
So when you're dealing with new types of user interfaces,
this is really something that will be tremendously useful.
All you need to do is change some of the properties of your
SVG document but the scaling will be done automatically.
So comparing SVG to some other proprietary type of
technologies that are cropping up today or have been
around the web for a long time now,
well, the core difference, of course,
is that SVG is a royalty free standard
developed by the W3C and is open.
You can participate as a developer if you're interested.
And, of course, it lends itself very
well to open source implementations.
And a direct benefit of the fact that it's an open royalty
free standard is that standard does not belong to anyone.
It is vendor neutral and it's not up to a single
company to define where this technology will be going.
So as a user or as a member of a corporation
you can join the W3C, for example,
and join the effort of defining the
next, the next steps of the SVG standard.
But another great benefit is that instead of dealing with
single implementation and possibly a company that would rest
on its laurels or stop listening its customers because
they have the strategy they want to impose on their users,
but we're dealing here with the technology that will
be implemented by many implementations and certainly Safari,
Firefox and Opera are a great example of this.
And these people will be competing
to provide the best experience.
So we saw great, that on the web when Internet Explorer was
a great dominant force on the web and slowed development
for years, it's really slowed down
the innovation on the web.
And only when new wave browsers such as Safari
cropped up, then the web 2.0 wave happened
and it opened up a great new world of possibilities.
So I think this is a tremendous advantage of SVG.
But, of course, like I said SVG is standards based.
It's based on mark-up, CSS and JavaScript and
so you will be able to use it at the same level
as a first class citizen as this technology is.
You're not dealing with a plugin.
And not dealing with a plugin means that instead of
dealing with a black box that's rendered on your screen,
you're dealing with something that shares
the same rendering model as HTML and CSS.
So if you really want to do precise intricate
compositions, you will have all the flexibility
that you will need using SVG and other web standards.
Directly related to this, having a mark-up and a shared
tree means that the same inventing models will be used
across your HTML and SVG content, whereas if you're dealing
with a proprietary technology they will probably have a
different inventing model and certainly something
that would be more local to the little black
box in which you render inside the plugin.
And another aspect of this shared DOM tree is that you will
be using the same API's and the same scripting environment
to double up your SVG content and implement interactivity
and animation and we'll see some example of that later on.
But when you're dealing with plugins and
proprietary technologies then you will certainly have
to use either a different language or a different iteration
of a language and certainly a different set of API's.
So, I guess what I really mean to say here is
that SVG really belongs on the web just like HTML
and CSS's have been developed, this is really something that
should be familiar to anyone who has skills in this area.
So Dean went through the Canvas features earlier.
And, of course, these are two technologies
that share some, that have things in common.
So it is, well, mostly that they are used to create 2D
rich graphics, but they are, however, quite different.
So it's worth trying to isolate some use cases
in which technology might be more appropriate.
Of course, your mileage may vary and depending
on your skill set, if you are more interested
in direct programming using lower level API's or higher
level mark-up then you will definitely make your own choice.
But for those few use cases, for example, if you're dealing
with a static image, basically a static graphics asset
that you would want to use to load dynamically in
your document or you want to save an image in SVG.
Well, SVG is a documented format so it is really meant
to be used in that way, whereas Canvas is a series
of programatic operations so it does not really,
is not really contained inside a format or anything.
So if you're creating two static images,
then SVG is probably a better choice.
When you're dealing with huge number of objects, Dean
highlighted how Canvas is a way to just draw and forget.
So there's no huge memory footprints
attached to using Canvas.
So in this case, if you need reperformance and
don't really care about preserving state of objects
and etcetera, then Canvas is probably a safer bet.
But when we're dealing with interactivity then SVG really
shines because, exactly because Canvas draws and forgets,
you do not have the concept of objects or
structure that you will be dealing with.
Whereas SVG always has anything that's drawn on screen
has a direct live representation in your DOM tree.
So when you need to do interactivity you can simply
get a handle to one object and update that object,
whereas in Canvas you would have to rerender the
whole Canvas to change the state of your graphics.
Same goes for animation basically.
Since, if you want to do a discreet animation on one
object of your tree, well, in SVG this is simple,
you can just get a handle to that
rectangle, change its width over time.
Whereas in Canvas, once again you
would have to compute the animation
and the rest of the graphics to rerender every time.
And, of course, if you don't really care about a data
model and just want to draw something and forget about it
and just display it and let it sit there, then
Canvas is probably also going to be, in that case,
a better choice because, well, what's the point of
having too many bells and whistles when all you want is
to display a bunch of pixels on the screen?
And finally, when you're dealing with server generated
content then, obviously, SVG is the smarter choice
because it is XML, there are millions of tools out
there on the server sites to deal with XML content
or even graphic packages, mapping,
etcetera, like I mentioned earlier.
So basically document format is always going to be
more appropriate for creating content on the server.
So let's get started into more technical part of SVG.
We won't get in depth because God knows SVG
is feature rich and it takes a little while
to really work out its little intricate details.
But we'll still, however, try to cover the main bases.
First of all, before drawing anything with SVG you need
to understand how you can integrate SVG in your web page.
You have severate, several, sorry.
You have several scenarios as to
how you want to go around doing it.
First scenario is by using a reference to SVG document.
So just like in HTML you can use an IFrame to load
an external HTML document, you can use object embed
or IFrame to point to an external SVG document.
However, if you're dealing with
more of a scripted environments
or you want the optimal flexibility
then you will probably want
to mix the mark-up, HTML and SVG into a single document.
So in that case you will have to contain all your SVG
graphics within an SVG element within the SVG name space.
Of course, you don't even have to have any mark-up
already sitting there to create SVG graphics on fly.
Using script you can directly use the DOM to add
any new SVG assets to your document using the DOM.
So just to look at pros and cons of
either techniques reference and inclusion.
Using a reference inclusion will mean that if you're
dealing with maybe a widget, like a stock widget,
that you would just want to display on your web
page but it's not really part of the contents,
it's just something you want to have sitting there as
an add on, then you're dealing with an external asset
and it's probably better to just point to
a URI and let it be and not bother your,
the rest of your document to deal with this.
But however, using that technique if you want to get inside
the content and update it, integrate it with the rest
of your web page then you will have to use
specific DOM accessors to get to the SVG document.
In that case it is the content document property that
you'll be able to access on the object rendered element.
Whereas when you're using inclusion you're dealing with a
mixed name space DOM tree, which is also a single DOM tree.
And that means that you have complete flexibility
as to how you want to structure your contents.
This also means that you have assured DOM and CSS trees.
So you can apply styling with a unique style trees to both
SVG and HTML content, which is really, really practical.
So it's really about if you're dealing with
external assets or you just want to bring in there
or if you want something very flexible and to have a
unique document to represent both your textual data and,
and etcetera and HTML and more graphics in SVG.
So, obviously at that point using a mixed document
it'll be tougher to manage external graphic resources.
So SVG is, has pretty much all the graphics features
that you would expect from a modern graphics language.
Vector shapes, obviously it's a vector language
so these are the core basic curves and etcetera.
Of course, you can also have solid colors but also
gradients and patterns, fill opacity, etcetera.
These are all features that we're going
to go through by example right now.
And a second set of features that we'll go around later
on is how you can use the DOM to add interactivity to SVG.
And this is really where SVG shines and is unique is
leveraging the concept of mark-up and scripting together
to create really interactive graphics
and even animated graphics.
So to start things softly the first
thing, the equivalent of hello world
in the graphics world is to draw a rectangle.
So, whereas in Canvas, of course, you would use
a set of API's to basically do the same thing,
in here you're just using a declarative mark-up approach.
So you have a rectangle drawn witha rect element, set its
graphic properties using the XML attributes XY in width
and height and it doesn't really take a genius
to work out what is going to happen here.
Of course, rounded rectangle are also supported.
You just have to use the RX and RY attributes to define
the corner radius and the X and Y axis for your rectangle.
Circles are represented by their own elements as well.
The CX and CY will define the center of the
elements and the R attribute will define the radius.
Ellipse are pretty similar except you will
have both an RX and RY instead of radiuses
to deal with the X axis and Y axis radius.
Polygon is another element where
you can give it a set of points.
And I think something that's worth mentioning here
is that even though SVG is an XML language all
of its features are not directly exposed as XML.
So, in that case, the list of points, which is a flat
structure, is, is just a micro syntax within an attribute.
So you could have thought that we would
have a set of elements as child of polygon
to specify points but that's not the way SVG is designed.
I actually don't think it makes a lot of sense because
XML is very good for a hierarchy, something that has order
that you might want to reorder, whereas
this is really a flat list of coordinates.
Path, of course, you need to have optimal
flexibility when dealing with graphics on the web.
And here again we have micro syntax with
different comments such as, M for move to,
C for curves and they're lots of other sets of comments.
You can use a path, for example, to draw the Apple logo.
And, of course, when you draw things you need to bring color
into the equation to have something render on the screen.
And so instead of having, like in Canvas,
a context of here's what I'm doing now,
I'm using red color to fill in stroke and etcetera.
Here we just have per object properties
to define what color they are.
So you can use the fill attributes to define what the fill
color is, the stroke attribute to define the stroking.
Fill and stroke out all on the same
object, which is actually quite handy,
you don't have to use two separate
things to draw a fill and a stroke.
And you can use all sorts of values for
these, for these fill and stroke attributes.
So you can use key words such as blue, an RGB
combination, RGBA actually also if you want
to have transparency directly expressed in
your fields stroke color, decimal, etcetera.
All this, the same data types that
you would use in HTML and CSS.
You can also control fill and stroke capacity
separately from one another or use an opacity attribute
to compose the whole graphics together
against the background.
Of course, we can get into more advanced
paint service such as, linear gradients,
once again, nothing very surprising here.
We define the linear gradient elements, give it an ID so
we can use it later on to define an object that will use
that as a fill and you use XY, Y1, X2, Y2
attributes to define the direction of the gradient.
In that case we have a gradient that's going to
go from the top, well, anyway, you figure it out.
And to use that linear gradient you
just use URL construct within your fill.
So that means you can create a set of resources of (unclear)
that can be used by different assets in your document.
So you can have five different rectangles using
the same gradient and if that gradient changes
or is animated then the different objects that use
that gradient will automatically be
kept in sync, which is really handy.
Radial gradients, of course, pretty much the same way.
You also define a center for the gradients and a radius.
You can have, of course, multiple stops.
Here there's only a first and a last stop, go from
zero to one but you can have as many stops as you want
with how many colors as you want,
and, of course, you can also set up,
even though it is not illustrated
here, a stop opacity for each stop.
So you can have nice little drop
shadows that will fade in gradually.
Clipping, another very important feature in graphics.
So a clip path is a shared resource.
You can use any SVG element as a
child to define your clip pass.
So it doesn't have to be a rectangle or
rounded rectangle, it can be anything.
It could be very free form.
It could be a path, for example.
In this case we're using an ellipse and we applied a clip
path of the ellipse to a rectangle by using, once again,
the URL construct applied to the clip path attribute.
And you can see the rendered area here in between the stroke
lines with the solid fills of blue and the stroke of red.
And there are, of course, way more features.
I mentioned here we haven't used any CSS.
We have only used direct text and attributes
but in this case we're just demonstrating how we can
use the same attributes as properties so we have fill,
stroke and stroke width properties,
which are new to CSS for SVG usage.
And you can create a class, for example, the mr-f class here, which we'll be able to reuse
across different graphics later
on by using the class attributes.
You can also define styles inline on
your elements using the style elements
if that's what you're in to, just like you would in HTML.
You can draw text very easily by giving it an anchor.
The baseline will be the lower part
of the text that will be aligned
with this position and just have you text right here.
So this is really handy because not only you can draw text
but you can transform text just like any other part of SVG.
So in this case we rotate the R text by 45 degrees.
Like I said earlier, we can use class attribute
to define the look and feel of our rectangles.
In this case we're using the mr-f class that we used earlier.
And another great feature of SVG is that as long as you
define an element with an ID you will be able to reuse
that element in any other part of your
document without having to replicate it
in the DOM tree just by using the use element.
So in this case we have the Apple logo as a path,
which shows in white at the lower end of the screen,
and we're going to use it once more with a
transform to scale it and rotate it a little bit,
apply a class using CSS and, in this case, we're
using the xlink:href attribute to point to that logo.
So this is really handy when you're dealing with
symbols and etcetera in your, in your, in your content.
So what, It's really interesting, and I'm not going to
spend a lot of time here because, well, first of all I'm,
time's running out, but also because as developers I think
this type of things will be very handy for you to pick up.
And, like I said, SVG is only using the DOM
so all the knowledge you know about HTML,
scripting HTML is directly applied to SVG.
So if you need a handle to an SVG element you just use the
getElementById method and pass an ID that you will have set
in your mark-up as well and you will get a
DOM object pointing to that piece of mark-up.
You can get elements by tag names, of course,
so if you want to get the list of rectangles
in your document set the name space to the SVG name
space and rect to be the name of their elements
and you will get a list of all
the rectangles in your document.
Of course, you can create SVG document, SVG content on on
the fly just like you can create HTML content on the fly.
You will use the create element method in that case.
Just give it the SVG name space, the name
of the element you're going to create,
and once you have done that you
will want to set its coattributes.
So if you want to draw rectangle, for
example, create element NS and SVG name space
and the rect string to create the rect element.
And once you have a handle to that element use
the set attribute method you set the XY width
and height and etcetera.
So you can do all this dynamically
on the fly within the client.
And you will use the appendChild and
removeChild methods to move content around
and put it in the right place in your document.
So I won't go in great detail about this because this is all
sorts of things you will find greatly documented out there
and everyone uses it to, to program the web content.
But what's interesting about SVG is
that because it's a graphics technology
and all of these preceding methods I've mentioned
were all about dealing with an XML structure,
SVG really needed something to be
able to deal with graphics directly.
So the first few things that you will have
in SVG and the SVG DOM is you will have a set
of data types that you can use in the graphic context.
So SVG point to represent a point, SVG rect
or rectangle SVG matrix for metrics, etcetera.
Those data types are used, you will encounter them when
you start using methods such as, get (unclear) box,
you query the getBBox of an element, which might
be complex and not directly replicated in the mark-up.
So if you're dealing with a path, essentially if you want to
have the bounding box and only had the XML data to figure
that out you would essentially have
to redraw the path yourself logically.
So the DOM in SVG will allow special
methods to do that directly.
So getBBox will return SVG rect
object with the metrics wherever the element is
in your tree, if it's a group of elements and etcetera.
You can also query the transformation
matrix applied to an element in,
in respect to another element using the
getTransformToElement and get the screen,
the complete transformation matrix all the way up to
the client user space using the getScreenCTM method.
This method will return a matrix and you can use
this matrix, for example, to take the client X
and client Y properties of an event and
transform them to get into the user space
of the current SVG object that you're dealing with.
So this is really handy and, of course, SVG DOM also has
a set of API's to deal with those micro syntaxes
that I talked about so path structure,
a list of points and etcetera.
So you can expect that as an essential tool kit.
So like I said SVG is really great for interactive content.
Interactivity is all about reacting
to user interface events.
And in HTML you will use all of the same types of
techniques and in SVG you can directly use them as well.
So if you want to, it's not scripting per se, but if
you want to apply a behavioral change, for example,
mouse over when an element is focused, you
can use the CSS pseudo classes :hover
and :focus to change the styling
properties of an SVG element.
Of course, you can also use mark-up based handler
onclick and onmousemove to call a special piece of JavaScript,
which is really good if you're dealing with pre-defined event handlers.
And you can add event handlers programmatically
as you are creating your content.
You can also add listeners directly from JavaScript
using the addEventListener methods,
which is great for dynamically adding event handlers.
And animation is basically performed by using
the same methods in the DOM recursively.
So in this case, for example, I'm using
the set interval function from JavaScript
that will call another function repeatedly given
a specific interval, and in this case I will want
to fade an element from opacity one to opacity zero.
I check the first, the start, the start time
by getting the time from a new data object,
set the duration to be two seconds 2000 milliseconds,
iterate through that time figure out the offsets
and apply basically that value as the opacity.
So using this function, this gives you a way to
animate the opacity of an element across two seconds.
So let's get to the most interesting part of the
session, which is, of course, demonstrations.
Switching to demo screens.
Thanks. So I have three little demos
that are actually pretty simple, I think.
So this first demo probably doesn't look interesting at all.
I mean, I'm just here, it's probably
just one of those new HTML five elements,
which is the input type search, which was an
input invention.
Instead of just using that element directly I chose, because
I like that kind of stuff, to implement it myself using SVG.
So you can rescale it and, I guess this is really
smooth when you're dealing with a need for scalable UI.
If you have a really high DPI screen, and certainly
those new 17 inch Mac Book Pros have very high DPI, well,
it would be pretty nice to be using
SVG to draw your URL elements.
So the funky thing here is that actually this part
here is HTML so I can type whatever I want here.
It's just an input element.
And the way I draw it is that I have a rectangle here
in the background that you do not see in SVG and I query
in symmetrics dynamically every time I want
to redraw because the scaling is defined
by the mark-up and, so this is really, really handy.
And, of course, I can create my own focus ring
using gradient and, it's pretty, it's pretty neat.
Another interesting demo, there you go.
I co-run the web site SVG.org, community
web site and I have a Google Analytics account.
Google Analytics provides XML feeds
of the contents for statistics.
And I'm just loading them up in this little piece of SVG.
So this is a standard SVG document, no HTML in this one.
So you can see its scales.
This is all created from AJAX calls, XML http requests.
So I make it a little bit wide.
You can see that the little points give
me, I can get the data for given dates.
Every thing is generically done on the fly.
I can change the month, go back in time,
animate it, all using SVG scripting.
And, of course, it wouldn't be a demo at
WWDC if you couldn't run it in slow mo.
So there you go, so.
( Applause )
For example, the text up there is rotated
and opacity is applied so it transforms,
the points move to the new directions, etcetera.
So this is actually pretty simple and pretty effective
and whatever the scaling is everything will be
done regardless of the resolution or anything.
So I really like that stuff.
So, for example, launch animation and resize
everything, it will all be done automatically.
You don't have to worry about taking
care of rescaling anything.
And finally, another interesting demonstration that I
wanted to make is when you really pull together HTML, CSS,
SVG all in one big document and to create
some pretty compelling user interfaces so.
This is all, of course, running in Safari 3.
So this is a blank Canvas.
I'm loading my Delicious Library XML database
on the fly perform X path queries, search it.
So in this case I'll be looking for,
I can look for different things.
In this case I'll be looking for artist
name that may contain the string WI.
Can see a list of objects coming up.
I can have.
So all of this here is SVG objects within divs that are
directly laid out using CSS contracts of inline blocks.
Here this is HTML text but the background is an
SVG piece of graphic that scale automatically.
I have a little drop shadow applied
directly to my SVG rectangle
so that it doesn't clip too harshly for the graphics.
And I can, of course, redimension
all the graphics on the screen.
I did my little custom scroll bars in SVG.
I can go up and down.
I just put in some useless effects when you click
on stuff so you can see little animations and,
of course, you can use slow motion, resize objects.
Well, it's a bit buggy but, animations
are performed while I redraw and resize
So I think it's really pretty neat and really opens
up a new set of avenues you can take on using WebKit.
And, of course, this is not limited to web content.
WebKit is part of your tool kit as Mac OS X developer
and so this type of interface is going to be directly hosted
in a Cocoa app, integrated with JavaScript, hook ups,
objective C callbacks, jar scripts and vice versa,
and I think you have a whole brand new
world of possibilities for your application.
And that pretty much wraps it up.
And we'll hand the mike over to George, who
I'd like to thank for hosting this track.
And before George comes up I would like
also to thank the Safari and WebKit teams
for implementing all these cool
graphics features and giving developers
and web authors alike new very
great creative avenues to explore.
Thanks.
( Applause )
>> Awesome.
Thanks every one.
And just to summarize detail demonstrations
of the stuff that you just saw,
Antoine will be hosting this code on his website.
So by the time all of this information gets posted to
the WWDCADC site we'll have links and you'll be able
to directly download the sample
code of the demos that you just saw.
So I want to wrap up with one little note.
And we're adding this basically one more thing
slides to all the content and media sessions.
We want to remind everyone what we're
talking about is building AJAX applications.
And when you're building a desktop
AJAX application, you know,
that application is going to be able to run on the iPhone.
With that aspect we want to reiterate what was discussed
in yesterday's session about good design practices.
We'll be having a rebroadcast of
the iPhone developing for web sites
for iPhone session tomorrow in North Beach at 3:30.
So for those of you that were not there or those of you that
were there and would like to take more notes on what you saw
and what you heard, please, we welcome
you to revisit and rewatch that session.
So coming to good design practices.
Essentially column layout.
When you're building out your design think grid
system, think Swiss grid system and design things
so that it makes the touch sensitivity on the
device and the multi-touch capabilities, I guess,
the functionality work better with
the content that you're laying out.
Size matters.
You're dealing with edge and you're dealing with wi-fi.
So when you're building out your content and you're taking
that all into consideration, please keep that in mind
with the types of imagery or the types of video
that you might be using within your, your contents.
And also the constructs of the resolution independence
graphics that you might be laying down with CSS 3.
Media queries, CSS 3 is extremely important.
This will be able to do the dynamic resizing and
dynamic layout of your web site content based
on your landscape or portrait views on the actual iPhone.
And then lastly, optimizing for iPhone.
The key things you want to remember and
consider when building up this content.
Remember the view port, the height and
width of landscape and portrait modes
when you actually put that into your CSS queries.
Remember the only tag.
Using the only tag will basically allow non iPhone or,
you know, mobile aware browsers to ignore that context
of the actual view port that you're assigning.
Double tap, when you're dealing with your content remember
the different types of DOM events that we had mentioned
in the session, remember that when you break up you
contents in a grid based layout it makes it easier to deal
and navigate in and out of that content and construct.
And then lastly, text size adjustments.
The device will basically take advantage and deal with a
lot of the logic when you're dealing with your content but,
again, remember when you build up your
system in a column based sort of schematic
or your grid based layout remember the type and
the flow of the content so you're not using a div
and having it completely fill the width of the
page, break it down into, again, column view.
And then lastly, the events, you know,
dealing with the JavaScript events.
We'll cover that again in the session tomorrow.
It is a rebroadcast but there are a
select amount of events that are supported
on the actual device and get up to speed on that.
And then lastly, your media.
Again, edge versus wi-fi, take into consideration
how you're going to actually encode that media,
the bit rate you're going to be dealing with it and
also your ref movies that you're going to be creating
when you're dealing with switching out of HTML context
into H.264 context when you're dealing with audio and video.
For more information, again, go the session tomorrow at
3:30 in North Beach, the internet wwdr contact
for dealing with iPhone issues right now is Mark Malone.
We've got a lot of helpful URL's here dealing with
both the user agent detection, dealing with the W3C
and WHATWG group specifications
around sort of future iterations
on what the browser will be supporting
as well as CSS 3 media queries.
And then, oh, right there, that's
actually, is that the URL for your sample?
Yes. So that URL there you'll be able to download
Antoine and Dean's sample application code.
Again, this'll be posted to the ADC website for those of
you, quick couple seconds if you want to copy that down.
>> (inaudible)
>> It will be posted shortly.
Go there and look at a blank page.
And now when you're dealing with media as it relates to
the iPhone Allan Schaffer is your WWDR contact.
We've got some tutorials and we have a ref movie maker tool
that you can download in preparation
for your actual content.
Remember that the type of media that the
device supports is H.264 baseline profile.